Male describer: A MULTIMEDIA SLIDE PRESENTATION IS TITLED
HTML5 VIDEO ACCESSIBILITY AND THE WebVTT FILE FORMAT.
MARCH 23, 2011. SILVIA PFEIFFER.
IN AN AUDITORIUM, A WOMAN SPEAKS AT A PODIUM.
Black: So welcome all. Thank you for coming.
My name is Naomi Black,
and I'm a member of the Accessibility Engineering Group
here at Google.
And today, I'm very pleased to invite
our speaker, Dr. Silvia Pfeiffer.
Silvia is a member and an invited expert
on the W3C HTML Accessibility Task Force.
And she's also the author of
"The Definitive Guide to HTML5 Video."
So Silvia's here to talk to us--
come on up.
Silvia's here to talk to us today about WebVTT,
which is one of the standards for timed text
which is under consideration by the W3C.
Thank you, Silvia.
Pfeiffer: Thank you.
Describer: SILVIA TAKES THE PODIUM.
Pfeiffer: Thanks for inviting me to come and speak
about this important topic today.
We know there are a lot of discussions going on
about formats for captions,
and we want to standardize them for the web.
But standardizing it for the web
has a much larger impact these days
than just on web browsers,
just on the web itself.
It goes into many different devices.
So we're very interested and very keen
to give a broad coverage of available technology,
and this is what we're trying to do here today.
So I'll be talking mostly about WebVTT, the file format.
But I'll also be talking a little bit about
how to plug that into the web browser into HTML
so that in the future,
we have a very simple way of displaying captions
in web browsers on videos
without having to do much more than authoring a file
and giving a link to the web browser for that file.
So it will be very simple for people in the future
to create more captions.
Describer: SILVIA CUES A NEW SLIDE TITLED
"REQUIREMENTS OF A WEB TEXT FORMAT."
HEADINGS BELOW READ "CAPTIONS OR SUBTITLES"
"TEXT VIDEO DESCRIPTIONS" "NAVIGATION OR CHAPTERS"
AND "METADATA."
Pfeiffer: All right, let's dig right in.
As we were looking at requirements
of such a text format,
a web text format for video,
we looked at the different types of content
that can be time-aligned with video.
And captions and subtitles
are the obvious ones,
but text video descriptions
are also an important use.
These are for blind users
and can be read out
by screen readers
in parallel to the playback
of the video.
This may well not be
the most usable way
of doing
audio descriptions,
but it is a much easier
way to publish
audio descriptions
for blind users.
And, in fact,
for a lot of blind users,
it may well be
all they need,
because they already have
their screen readers set up,
and it works really well
for some people.
Further to that,
we're also talking about
navigation or chapters,
which is also
very important
for blind and,
in fact, any user.
If you want to go through
a video quickly
and find out
what's in there,
you want to jump to what we now
know as chapter markers.
We can call them
navigation markers.
This can be also covered
with the same kind of format.
And more generally,
metadata.
This is something
that archives
are particularly
interested in,
to attach metadata
to sections in the video.
It can also be done with such
a time-aligned text format.
So what we have
discussed for browsers
is a very simple format.
It's called WebVTT,
Video Text Tracks.
WebVTT.
Describer: A NEW SLIDE TITLED
"WebVTT OR VIDEO TEXT TRACKS."
A SAMPLE FILE IS HEADED "WEBVTT"
WITH TWO ELEMENTS BELOW.
EACH ELEMENT CONTAINS
THREE LINES OF INFORMATION:
CAPTION NUMBER,
TIME CODE START
AND TIME CODE END,
AND CAPTION TEXT.
BELOW THE TEXT, A STILL PHOTO
OF A MAN SEATED IN A WORKSHOP
IS CAPTIONED "I HEARD ABOUT
THIS ARDUINO PROJECT,
AND I SAW IT ONLINE."
Pfeiffer: This is one
of the very simple files
that we can think about.
Just a marker
at the beginning of the file
that identifies
the file format.
The captions or subtitles--
let's call them cues--
then have an individual
identifier.
In this case, it's
the number one and number two.
Could be any string, however.
And then we've got start times
and end times
on each one of these cues,
and a piece of text
in there.
It turns out in--
as we all know how captions
are displayed on screen
in something like this
if it's automatically
created by the browser.
Describer: THE CAPTION DISPLAYS
AT THE BOTTOM OF THE SCREEN
IN WHITE LETTERING
OVER A SHADED GRAY BOX.
Pfeiffer: That was the very
simplest way of doing subtitles.
Now, we want to do more
than just the simple captions.
In particular,
if we want to achieve
all the functionality
of, for example,
the CEA-608 captions,
then we need to do a bit more
than just text.
We also want to have
some formatting in there.
Describer: ANOTHER SLIDE, TITLED
"WebVTT FORMATTED SUBTITLES,"
DISPLAYS THE SAME STILL IMAGE,
WITH THE CAPTION IN GERMAN.
THE WORD "ARDUINO" IS WRITTEN
IN ALL CAPS AND COLORED RED.
Pfeiffer: Here is an example
on how to do bold.
I'll point to it.
There's a bold tag in here,
so that will be bold text.
Here is some italic text.
Describer: IN THE SAMPLE FILE,
THE SECOND CAPTION CONTAINS
THE WORD "WOW!"
SURROUNDED BY THE HTML TAG
FOR BOLD,
THE LETTER "b" SURROUNDED
BY ANGLED BRACKETS
BEFORE THE WORD "WOW,"
AND "/b" IN ANGLE BRACKETS
AFTER THE WORD "WOW."
ANOTHER PHRASE IS ENCLOSED
IN THE TAG FOR ITALICS,
"i" AND "/i".
Pfeiffer: And up here
we've got a general way
to associate style or a class
to a piece of text
and give it a meaning.
In this situation,
we've turned a piece of text
into red text
and capitalized it.
Describer: THE WORD "ARDUINO"
IS PRECEDED BY THE TAG
"c.red.caps"
WITH A "/c" TO CLOSE.
IN THE CAPTION, IT APPEARS RED
AND CAPITALIZED.
Pfeiffer: Of course,
if we're using this format
also for subtitles,
we need to be careful to cover
internationalization issues.
WebVTT is very clear here.
It requires UTF-8
character encoding.
Describer: ANOTHER SLIDE,
WebVTT FOR INTERNATIONALIZATION,
ABBREVIATED
I18N.
A SAMPLE CAPTION FILE CONTAINS
TIME CODES FOR CAPTION
START AND STOP
AND CAPTION TEXT
IN ASIAN LANGUAGE CHARACTERS.
HEADINGS BELOW READ
"UTF-8 CHARACTER ENCODING"
"RUBY TEXT"
AND "VERTICAL OR HORIZONTAL
RENDERING AND ALIGNMENT."
Pfeiffer: It has a ruby tag,
which supports
Asian languages in particular.
Describer: ANNOTATED ASIAN
LANGUAGE CHARACTERS ARE SHOWN
BETWEEN AN OPEN AND CLOSE
RUBY TAG,
WITH THE ANNOTATIONS
BETWEEN "rt" TAGS
AND THE ANNOTATED TEXT
BETWEEN "rb" TAGS.
TO THE RIGHT
OF THE START AND STOP TIMES,
CODES READ "D:vertical"
AND "A:start".
Pfeiffer: It also does
vertical and horizontal
rendering of text.
Again, possibly one of the most
important ones
are Asian languages,
and I think there are
a few other languages
that are also
rendered vertically.
And we need to make sure
we get the alignment right.
Sometimes text is read
from the right to the left,
so therefore it needs
to be aligned on the right
rather than on the left.
Describer:
ANOTHER SLIDE IS TITLED
"WebVTT CAPTION POSITIONING."
Pfeiffer: Now, positioning
is another requirement
and, again, something
that traditional captions,
TV captions,
are able to do.
It's possible to position cues
anywhere in WebVTT.
There are basically
three important ways
to position text.
Describer: A STILL SHOT FROM
"ANNIE HALL" FINDS DIANE KEATON
WEARING A DRESS SHIRT,
NECKTIE, AND VEST.
CAPTIONS APPEAR
IN THE CENTER OF THE VIDEO PANE
AT BOTH THE TOP AND BOTTOM
OF THE SCREEN.
THE BOTTOM CAPTION TEXT
WRAPS TO A SECOND LINE.
AFTER THE LINE BREAK,
THE CAPTIONS ARE CENTER ALIGNED.
THE BOTTOM CAPTION READS
"YEAH, I SORT OF DABBLE AROUND,
YOU KNOW."
THE TOP CAPTION: "I DABBLE?
LISTEN TO ME. WHAT A JERK."
HEADINGS NEXT TO THE STILL
READ "L, LINE POSITION,
T, TEXT POSITION
A, ALIGNMENT."
Pfeiffer: There are
line positions.
So the concept of display lines
exists in WebVTT.
So the line position
allows people
to directly address
a specific line.
It can be done with
a line number or a percentage.
Then we have
the text position.
This means we're placing
the text either on the left,
in the middle,
or on the right.
No, hold on.
That's the alignment, sorry.
Alignment is
left, middle, and right.
And the text position is...
so when we have text
like this,
it's in the middle,
and it's centered.
So we can also do a centering,
and we can do
a left alignment
and a right alignment.
But we can also move
that whole text elsewhere.
So the text position
is where we move the text
and the alignment is
where we align it at.
Describer: A SAMPLE FILE
FEATURES POSITION CODES
TO THE RIGHT
OF THE TIME CODE MARKERS.
FOR THE CAPTION AT THE TOP,
THE CODES READ
"A:middle" AND "L:10%".
FOR THE BOTTOM CAPTION,
"A:middle" AND "L:60%".
A NEW SLIDE IS TITLED
"WebVTT SPEAKER SEMANTICS."
TWO FRAMES OF VIDEO FROM
THE ANIMATED PROGRAM "ARTHUR"
CAPTURE A MONKEY
FROWNING AT A BUNNY.
THE FIRST FRAME IS CAPTIONED
"AHEM..."
WITH THE CAPTION LEFT ALIGNED
TO APPEAR BELOW THE MONKEY.
THE SECOND FRAME IS CAPTIONED
"WHAT'S THE MATTER?"
AND IS RIGHT ALIGNED
TO APPEAR BELOW THE BUNNY.
Pfeiffer: We also have
speaker semantics
included into WebVTT,
which is interesting
because it allows us
to put some semantic information
into our markup.
Describer: IN THE SAMPLE FILE,
TAGS APPEAR BEFORE THE TEXT
OF EACH CAPTION,
"v.Beatrix"
IN THE FIRST CAPTION,
AND "v.Arthur"
IN THE SECOND.
THE TAGS ARE NOT CLOSED.
Pfeiffer: Here, for example,
we have two people speaking.
We know their position
on the left and on the right.
And the speaker markup
can tell us where we want
to position it
and can also, for example,
help us always use
the same styling
for the same speaker.
So, for example, we want
to use the same font,
the same font color,
maybe a specific outline
or something for a speaker.
We can define that
and then apply that always
for that speaker.
Describer: ANOTHER SLIDE,
WebVTT TEXT DESCRIPTIONS.
Pfeiffer: Now, so much
for captions.
Now we move on
to a little example
on text descriptions.
Here is one
that I've used previously,
and we've got that
as an example on the site.
Describer: A SAMPLE FILE
CONTAINS THREE DESCRIPTIONS,
EACH WITH THREE LINES
OF INFORMATION:
DESCRIPTION NUMBER,
TIME CODE START AND STOP,
AND THE TEXT TO BE READ ALOUD
BY A SCREEN READER.
THE SLIDE GIVES
THREE SAMPLE DESCRIPTIONS.
SAMPLE ONE, "THE ORANGE OPEN
MOVIE PROJECT PRESENTS."
SAMPLE TWO, "INTRODUCTORY TITLES
ARE SHOWING ON THE BACKGROUND
"OF A WATER POOL
WITH FISHES SWIMMING
AND MECHANICAL OBJECTS
LYING ON A STONE FLOOR."
SAMPLE THREE, "TITLE:
ELEPHANTS DREAM."
Pfeiffer: I'm not gonna
go there;
I just want to mention it,
because we want to focus
on captions today.
But what happens here is,
we've got text that's aligned
with a start and end time
as well.
And for a typical word rate
of a screen reader,
it will fit into that space,
and it will be read back
by the screen reader
during that time.
Describer: A NEW SLIDE,
WebVTT CHAPTERS FOR NAVIGATION.
Pfeiffer: And here is
the navigation example.
As I mentioned, WebVTT can also
be used for navigation.
Here we have three chapters,
and we can directly jump
from chapter to chapter.
There needs to be extra controls
on videos to support this,
but this is something
we're working towards.
Describer: A SAMPLE FILE
CONTAINS THREE CHAPTERS,
EACH WITH THREE LINES
OF INFORMATION:
CHAPTER NUMBER, TIME CODE START
AND STOP, AND CHAPTER TITLE.
TEXT BELOW THE SAMPLE READS
"NAVIGATION MARKERS."
A NEW SLIDE IS TITLED
"TEXT TRACKS IN HTML5."
Pfeiffer: Now, of course,
as I'm saying,
controls and input
into web pages
and automatic rendering,
we need to know
how we're going to do that.
And there is markup
in HTML5
for associating captions
and formats like this
with videos.
In this example,
I've got all of the VTT files
that we've used before.
I've included them here.
And what we're using for it
is called a track element,
and this track element
is included
underneath the video element
in the HTML5 markup.
It links through
the VTT file.
And there is some description
possible
for the type of file it is,
so we have a label.
In this case,
it's an English caption.
We have a kind,
which gives us a means
to group all the tracks
of the same type together.
Describer: A CODE SAMPLE LISTS
A SOURCE VIDEO
AND A SERIES OF TRACKS
WITH THE FOLLOWING LABELS:
ENGLISH CAPTIONS, GERMAN
SUBTITLES, FRENCH SUBTITLES,
ENGLISH DESCRIPTIONS,
AND CHAPTERS.
EACH TRACK HAS ATTRIBUTES "KIND"
"SRC LANG" AND "SRC",
WITH THE "SRC" CONTAINING
A URL TO THE WebVTT FILE.
THE SAMPLE CONTAINS THE KINDS
CAPTIONS, SUBTITLES,
DESCRIPTIONS, AND CHAPTERS.
Pfeiffer: And we identify
the language.
Because, of course, when we have
user settings in browsers,
we want to automatically
make certain tracks
available to the user
if the user has,
for example,
said that they always
want captions
or they always want subtitles
in their language being shown.
So the browser can
look through this markup
and identify which ones
it has to turn on by default.
Describer: AFTER TEXT THAT READS
"SRCLANG="
THE LETTERS "EN"
ARE HIGHLIGHTED,
INDICATING ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
Pfeiffer: Now, in this case,
I've used only WebVTT files.
The track layout, the way that
we've defined track in HTML5,
is actually generic.
It can be used for other types
of files as well,
TTML or SRT
or any other formats
that will be implemented.
Describer: THE WORD "TRACK"
IS HIGHLIGHTED
IN A TAG READING:
TRACK LABEL="ENGLISH CAPTIONS".
Pfeiffer: But the generic way
that track
works is in this way.
Describer: A NEW SLIDE
IS TITLED
"USING CSS FOR RICHER STYLING."
A SAMPLE FILE FEATURES
THE MAN IN HIS WORKSHOP
CAPTIONED "I HEARD ABOUT
THIS ARDUINO PROJECT
AND SAW IT ONLINE."
THE WORD ARDUINO IS RED
AND ALL CAPS.
THE REST OF THE CAPTION
IS BLACK AND MIXED TYPECASE.
Pfeiffer: Now, once we've got it
in the browser,
we can actually support more
than what is directly possible
as markup
in the WebVTT file,
because now we've got the text
in the browser,
and we can make use
of all the functionality
of the browser,
which has styling
and the concurrent style sheet
functionality
available to it.
So this kind of styling
is also available
if used in a browser,
to these cues.
And the way in which
this is being done
is that there's
a pseudo-element in CSS
called ::cue.
And with that pseudo-element,
you can address,
for example,
classes in the cue markup.
Describer: IN THE SAMPLE FILE,
A TAG POINTING TO ".arduino"
SURROUNDS THE WORD ARDUINO.
Pfeiffer: And you can override
the formatting
that by default
would be given.
You can, for example--
well, in this case,
it's been turned red,
uppercase,
a different font family,
and a lighter weight.
Describer: IN A SEPARATE BOX,
UNDER THE HEADING CSS,
THE ::CUE PSEUDO-ELEMENT
".arduino"
CONTAINS CODE SELECTING
COLOR AS RED,
TEXT-TRANSFORM AS UPPERCASE,
FONT-FAMILY AS HELVETICA NEUE,
AND FONT-WEIGHT AS LIGHTER.
A NEW SLIDE IS TITLED
"WebVTT DEFAULT RENDERING."
TWO HEADINGS READ
"POP-ON: BOTTOM THIRD OF VIDEO
VIEWPORT, CENTERED"
AND "ROLL-UP: OVERLAPPING
CAPTIONS ARE ADDED UNDERNEATH."
Pfeiffer: Now, we've
spoken a lot.
We want to see a little bit
of a demo here,
and I've made a little bit
of a demo
which shows that we can
do more than what's typically
being used for captions
right now.
Most captions that are
being used are pop-on captions,
which are captions
that don't overlap in time.
There's one piece of caption,
one cue shown;
it disappears, and the next cue
is brought up.
That's pop-on.
And that is the default way
of rendering it.
But we may have
a very different style
of providing captions
as well,
which has traditionally
been used
mostly in live captioning.
It's called roll-up.
So the cues will actually
be added at the bottom
and roll up as the--
and the old ones
will disappear.
So I've made a little example
that shows how that
can be done as well.
Describer: A VIDEO PLAYS.
AS THE MAN IN HIS SHOP SPEAKS,
TWO LINES OF LEFT-ALIGNED
CAPTIONS
We have a kind,
which gives us a means
to group all the tracks
of the same type together.
Describer: A CODE SAMPLE LISTS
A SOURCE VIDEO
AND A SERIES OF TRACKS
WITH THE FOLLOWING LABELS:
ENGLISH CAPTIONS, GERMAN
SUBTITLES, FRENCH SUBTITLES,
ENGLISH DESCRIPTIONS,
AND CHAPTERS.
EACH TRACK HAS ATTRIBUTES "KIND"
"SRC LANG" AND "SRC",
WITH THE "SRC" CONTAINING
A URL TO THE WebVTT FILE.
THE SAMPLE CONTAINS THE KINDS
CAPTIONS, SUBTITLES,
DESCRIPTIONS, AND CHAPTERS.
Pfeiffer: And we identify
the language.
Because, of course, when we have
user settings in browsers,
we want to automatically
make certain tracks
available to the user
if the user has,
for example,
said that they always
want captions
or they always want subtitles
in their language being shown.
So the browser can
look through this markup
and identify which ones
it has to turn on by default.
Describer: AFTER TEXT THAT READS
"SRCLANG="
THE LETTERS "EN"
ARE HIGHLIGHTED,
INDICATING ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
Pfeiffer: Now, in this case,
I've used only WebVTT files.
The track layout, the way that
we've defined track in HTML5,
is actually generic.
It can be used for other types
of files as well,
TTML or SRT
or any other formats
that will be implemented.
Describer: THE WORD "TRACK"
IS HIGHLIGHTED
IN A TAG READING:
TRACK LABEL="ENGLISH CAPTIONS".
Pfeiffer: But the generic way
that track
works is in this way.
Describer: A NEW SLIDE
IS TITLED
"USING CSS FOR RICHER STYLING."
A SAMPLE FILE FEATURES
THE MAN IN HIS WORKSHOP
CAPTIONED "I HEARD ABOUT
THIS ARDUINO PROJECT
AND SAW IT ONLINE."
THE WORD ARDUINO IS RED
AND ALL CAPS.
THE REST OF THE CAPTION
IS BLACK AND MIXED TYPECASE.
Pfeiffer: Now, once we've got it
in the browser,
we can actually support more
than what is directly possible
as markup
in the WebVTT file,
because now we've got the text
in the browser,
and we can make use
of all the functionality
of the browser,
which has styling
and the concurrent style sheet
functionality
available to it.
So this kind of styling
is also available
if used in a browser,
to these cues.
And the way in which
this is being done
is that there's
a pseudo-element in CSS
called ::cue.
And with that pseudo-element,